Feature beta 3 branch - Redis samples (#22164)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureCacheForRedis/node-redis.md

> ## Azure Cache For Redis AAD With Node-Redis Client Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Azure Cache for Redis: Azure AD with node-redis client library
```

### Table of contents

> - [Node-redis Library](#node-redis-library)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [node-redis library](#node-redis-library)
```

    - [Dependency Requirements](#dependency-requirements-node-redis)

>     - [Authenticate with AAD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-aad-node-redis-hello-world)
>     - [Authenticate with AAD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-aad-handle-re-authentication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-node-redis-hello-world)
    - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication)
```

> ### Node-redis Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### node-redis library
```

#### Dependency Requirements Node-redis
```

>     "@azure/identity":"^2.0.4",
>     "redis": "^4.1.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"dependencies": {
    "@azure/identity": "^2.0.4",
    "redis": "^4.1.0",
```

Familiarity with the Node-redis and Azure Identity client libraries is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Identity library for Javascript, see the docs for [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) and [node-redis](https://github.com/redis/node-redis) rather than this guide.

##### Migration Guidance
When migrating your existing your application code, you need to replace the password input with Azure Active Directory Token.
Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an AAD Access Token via Identity SDK as shown below and replace it with the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.

**Note:** The below sample uses `ClientCertificateCredential` from our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) SDK, the credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) SDK.

```ts
import { createClient } from 'redis';
import * as dotenv from "dotenv";

> import {ClientCertificateCredential} from "@azure/identity";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { ClientCertificateCredential } from "@azure/identity";
```

dotenv.config();

async function main(){
// Construct a Token Credential from Identity SDK, e.g. ClientSecretCredential / Client CertificateCredential / ManagedIdentityCredential etc.
    const credential = new ClientCertificateCredential(process.env.AZURE_TENANT_ID, process.env.AZURE_CLIENT_ID,process.env.CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH)
    try{
        // Fetch an AAD token to be used for authentication. This token will be used as the password.
        let accessToken = await credential.getToken("https://*.cacheinfra.windows.net:10225/appid/.default")
        console.log("access Token",accessToken);

        //Option 1 - Create redis client and connect to the Azure Cache for Redis over the TLS port using the access token as password.
        const client = createClient({
            username: process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME, 
            password: accessToken.token, 

>             url: `redis://${process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME}:${accessToken.token}@${process.env.REDIS_HOSTNAME}:6380`

Author: The complete url is needed. The username and password aren't needed if we are providing the url correctly. I did that for clarity purposes so that the users understand node-redis and io-redis. I can remove those fields though

>             url: `redis://${process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME}:${accessToken.token}@${process.env.REDIS_HOSTNAME}:6380`

Author: Url would work even without the username and password specified in the url. Will update the url.

>             url: `redis://${process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME}:${accessToken.token}@${process.env.REDIS_HOSTNAME}:6380`

Author: done

Familiarity with the Node-redis and Azure Identity client libraries is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Identity library for Javascript, see the docs for [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) and [node-redis](https://github.com/redis/node-redis) rather than this guide.

##### Migration Guidance
When migrating your existing your application code, you need to replace the password input with Azure Active Directory Token.
Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an AAD Access Token via Identity SDK as shown below and replace the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.

**Note:** The below sample uses `ClientCertificateCredential` from our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) SDK, the credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by our [Azure Identity]((https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) SDK.

```ts
import Redis from "node-redis";

> import * as dotenv from "dotenv";

Author: done

> ## Azure Cache for Redis: Azure AD with node-redis client library

Reviewer 2: I _really_ think that we should just pick one. This package's API is so, so nearly the _exact same thing_ as ioredis. I just don't see much value at all in having both of these samples that say the exact same thing. So much of the code is just duplicate information and which library you use to talk to redis is beside the point of the sample, which is about how Azure Cache for Redis interacts with AAD RBAC.

### Table of contents

>     - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
>     - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-node-redis-hello-world)
>     - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication)
>     - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Using Token Cache](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-using-token-cache)
>     - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
> 
> ### node-redis library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-node-redis-hello-world)
- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication)
- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Using Token Cache](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-using-token-cache)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
```

#### Prerequisites

- Configuration of Role and Role Assignments is required before using the sample code in this document.
- **Dependency Requirements:**
    Add the following dependencies to *package.json*:

    ```
    "dependencies": {
      "@azure/identity": "^2.0.4",

>       "redis": "^4.1.0",

Reviewer: The closing triple-ticks are needed after this line

#### Samples Guidance

> Familiarity with the [node-redis](https://github.com/redis/node-redis) and [Azure Identity for JavaScript](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) client libraries is assumed.

Reviewer: Move sentence to prereqs

## Azure Cache for Redis: Azure AD with node-redis client library

### Table of contents

> - [node-redis library](#node-redis-library)

Reviewer: Remove

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

### node-redis library

#### Prerequisites

- Configuration of Role and Role Assignments is required before using the sample code in this document.
- **Dependency Requirements:**
Add the following dependencies to *package.json*:

```
"dependencies": {
  "@azure/identity":"^2.0.4",
    "redis": "^4.1.0",
```
#### Samples Guidance

Familiarity with the [node-redis](https://github.com/redis/node-redis) and [Azure Identity for Javascript](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) client libraries is assumed.
* [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-hello-world):
   This sample is recommended for users getting started to use Azure AD authentication with Azure Cache for Redis.
* [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication):
   This sample is recommended to users looking to build long-running applications and would like to handle reauthenticating with Azure AD upon token expiry.
* [Authenticate with Azure AD - Using Token Cache](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-using-token-cache):

>   This sample is recommended to users looking to build long-running applications that would like to handle reauthenticating with a Token cache. The token cache stores and proactively refreshes the Azure AD access token 2 minutes before expiry and ensures a non-expired token is available for use when the cache is accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This sample is recommended to users looking to build long-running applications that would like to handle reauthenticating with a token cache. The token cache stores and proactively refreshes the Azure AD access token 2 minutes before expiry and ensures a non-expired token is available for use when the cache is accessed.
```

#### Authenticate with Azure AD: Hello World

This sample is intended to assist in authenticating with Azure AD via the node-redis client library. It focuses on displaying the logic required to fetch an Azure AD access token and to use it as password when setting up the node-redis instance.

##### Migration guidance

> When migrating your existing application code, replace the password input with the Azure AD token. Azure Redis Cache name, Service Principal Username, Azure AD token, and use of SSL are required while connecting with the cache. The username will depend on whether you are using Service Principal, Managed identity, or Microsoft username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating your existing application code, replace the password input with the Azure AD token. Azure Redis Cache name, service principal username, Azure AD token, and use of SSL are required while connecting with the cache. The username will depend on whether you're using service principal, managed identity, or Microsoft username.
```

> When migrating your existing application code, replace the password input with the Azure AD token. Azure Redis Cache name, Service Principal Username, AAD Token and using SSL are required while connecting with the cache. The username will depend on whether you are using Service Principal, Managed identity or MSFT username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating your existing application code, replace the password input with the Azure AD token. Azure Redis Cache name, Service Principal Username, Azure AD token, and use of SSL are required while connecting with the cache. The username will depend on whether you're using Service Principal, Managed identity, or Microsoft username.
```

Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an Azure AD access token via the Azure Identity library, as shown below. Replace it with the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.

```ts
import { createClient } from "redis";
import { DefaultAzureCredential } from "@azure/identity";
import * as dotenv from "dotenv";
dotenv.config();

async function main() {
  // Construct a Token Credential from Identity library, e.g. ClientSecretCredential / ClientCertificateCredential / ManagedIdentityCredential, etc.
  const credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();

>   // The scope will be changed for Azure AD Public Preview

Reviewer: If you haven't already, please create an issue to track updating this scope value.

Author: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/22770

  const redisScope = "https://*.cacheinfra.windows.net:10225/appid/.default"

  // Fetch an AAD token to be used for authentication. This token will be used as the password.
  let accessToken = await credential.getToken(redisScope);
  console.log("access Token", accessToken);

  // Create redis client and connect to the Azure Cache for Redis over the TLS port using the access token as password.
  const client = createClient({
    username: process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME,
    password: accessToken.token,
    url: `redis://${process.env.REDIS_HOSTNAME}:6380`,
    socket: { 
      tls: true,
      keepAlive: 0 
    },
  });

  client.on("error", (err) => console.log("Redis Client Error", err));
  await client.connect();
  // Set a value against your key in the Azure Redis Cache.
  await client.set("Az:key", "value1312");
  // Get value of your key in the Azure Redis Cache.
  console.log("value-", await client.get("Az:key"));
}

main().catch((err) => {
  console.log("error code: ", err.code);
  console.log("error message: ", err.message);
  console.log("error stack: ", err.stack);
});
```

##### Supported Token Credentials for Azure AD Authentication

> **Note:** The samples in this doc use the Azure Identity library's `DefaultAzureCredential` to fetch Azure AD Access Token. The samples also use Service Principal name as the username. The other supported `TokenCredential` implementations that can be used from [Azure Identity for Javascript](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The samples in this doc use the Azure Identity library's `DefaultAzureCredential` to fetch Azure AD access token. The samples also use a Service Principal name as the username. The other supported `TokenCredential` implementations that can be used from [Azure Identity for JavaScript](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-node-latest) are as follows:
```

    }
  
  }, 1000);

  for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
    try {
      // Set a value against your key in the Azure Redis Cache.
      await redisClient.set("Az:mykey", "value123");
      // Fetch value of your key in the Azure Redis Cache.
      console.log("redis key:", await redisClient.get("Az:mykey"));
      break;
    } catch (e) {
      console.log("error during redis get", e.toString());
     if ((accessTokenObject.expiresOnTimestamp <= Date.now())|| (redis.status === "end" || "close") ) {
      await redis.disconnect();
      redisClient = createClient({
        username: process.env.REDIS_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_NAME,
        password: accessTokenObject.token,
        url: `redis://${process.env.REDIS_HOSTNAME}:6380`,
        socket: {
          tls: true,
          keepAlive: 0
        },
      });
      }
    }
    await sleep(1000);
  }
  clearInterval(id);
}

main().catch((err) => {
  console.log("error code: ", err.code);
  console.log("error message: ", err.message);
  console.log("error stack: ", err.stack);
});

function sleep(ms: number) {
  return new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, ms));
}
```

#### Troubleshooting
##### Invalid Username Password Pair Error

> In this error scenario, the username provided and the access token used as password are not compatible. To mitigate this error, ensure that:
> 
> On Portal, Under your `Redis Cache Resource` -> RBAC Rules, you've assigned the required role to your user/service principal identity.
> On Portal, Under your `Redis Cache Resource` -> Advanced settings -> AAD Access Authorization box is checked/enabled, if not enable it and press the Save button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this error scenario, the username provided and the access token used as password are not compatible. To mitigate this error, navigate to your Azure Cache for Redis resource in the Azure portal. Confirm that:

* In **RBAC Rules**, you've assigned the required role to your user/service principal identity.
* In **Advanced settings**, the **AAD access authorization** box is selected. If not, select it and select the **Save** button.
```

##### Permissions not granted / NOPERM Error

> In this error scenario, the authentication was successful, but your registered user/service principal is not granted the RBAC permission to perform the action. To mitigate this error, ensure that:
> 
> On Portal, Under your `Redis Cache Resource` -> RBAC Rules, you've assigned the appropriate role (Owner, Contributor, Reader) to your user/service principal identity.
> In the event you're using a custom role, then ensure the permissions granted under your custom role include the one required for your target action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this error scenario, the authentication was successful, but your registered user/service principal is not granted the RBAC permission to perform the action. To mitigate this error, navigate to your Azure Cache for Redis resource in the Azure portal. Confirm that:

* In **RBAC Rules**, you've assigned the appropriate role (Owner, Contributor, Reader) to your user/service principal identity.
* In the event you're using a custom role, ensure the permissions granted under your custom role include the one required for your target action.
```
